Welcome back.
So we've already seen how we can connect components through the use of the app the callback decorator.
We've also seen how we can define output and input.
Recall that the input went inside of a list and that's because we can have multiple inputs.
What we're going to do in this lecture is show you how you can connect multiple inputs to a single output
in a graph.
Let's go ahead and see what the finished dashboard is going to look like and then we'll get to coding
it out.
All right.
So this is what the finished dashboard is going to look like.
And basically we're using that MPG dataset for the cars that we've used before except we now have two
inputs.
These two dropdown menus and that allows us to affect what goes in the x axis and what goes in the y
axis.
So for example if I want to change the x axis from displacement mpg I just click on the dropdown and
the plot automatically updates.
Or if I want to plot mpg maybe versus wait I can do that as well.
And I can see here that as you decrease the weight the MPG goes up.
So let's go ahead and jump torque coding Ed. and see how we can connect multiple inputs to this single
graph output.
Then later on we'll also discuss multiple outputs in a future lecture.
Let's get started.
All right so here we are at the text editor.
I've already imported dash dash components H.M. components the input and output from dependencies as
well Efes graph objects because we're going to be graphing that scatterplot Anson's reason the MPG data
set.
I've imported pandas.
Then I just called PD that read CACP on the NPG that see every file.
So let's get started with our app location.
So this dash app will create it by saying app is equal to dash dot dash.
And then we're going to create a list of the features that we're going to be working with.
So in this case the features that are going to be available in those dropdown menus that's just going
to be all the columns in the data frame.
So we'll create a list called features and set that equal to DMF columns.
So again this is just a list of the actual columns so this list is going to look something like MPG
horsepower displacements and so on.
So you get the idea of what that is.
Keep in mind not every feature is probably a good idea for this scatterplot and in fact later on when
we work again with the dashboard you'll see that we'll be able to be plotting a scatterplot with something
like the actual names of the cars.
So those model cars that's probably not a great choice for the scatterplot but because this makes it
a little easier to just have all the options in your dropdown menu.
We'll go ahead and set that later on you're going to see how we're use features with the dropdown for
components.
So let's give ourselves a little more room here and get started with her actually layout OSA app layout
is equal to and just as we've done before many times will set up our division.
And this takes in a list and we're gonna have three main things here.
We're going to have to drop them the second dropdown and then our graph.
It's usually convenient to be able to place each down into its own separate div because that way you
can adjust the style easily.
So we're going to do that.
We're going to have another HTL div and inside of this we'll have a single drop down.
Make sure you take advantage of indentation here just so it makes it easier for you to read.
So we have 20:00 div the first div inside of this is going to be a drop down and we'll just leave it
at that.
And then the second item in our outermost div is going to be another div which as you may have guessed
is going to hold the other dropdown
and then finally let's go ahead and add in a graph.
So for this we won't bother putting it in a div because there's not a whole lot of style that we need
to worry about.
For that graph.
So you're saying this is the graph in effect we can just finish this one off right now by saying giving
it an ID such as featured graphic and we're going to be inserting the actual figure later on in our
update graph function call.
OK so here's the very basic bones of our layout.
We have the outermost div.
Then we have a div that's going to contain the first drop down a div that will contain the second drop.
And then our actual graph.
Let's begin by setting up these drop downs.
We'll have the first dropdown Id be x axis and then remember that the dropdown takes in an options parameter.
And this one's a little funny because it's essentially a list of dictionaries where that dictionary
has a label and a value and we're going to use list comprehension in order to build out this dictionary.
So we'll do the following.
We're going to say the label is I.
And the value is going to be as well.
And then we're going to do this for I in features.
So I that's the column name remember that features right here.
That's going to be mpg HP displacement and so on.
So all we're doing here this options is we're just building out a dictionary that says label mpg.
Value mpg for I in features and we're just having these just correlate exactly with the label and value.
So we don't need to worry about having the value be something else later on in our code.
So that's the options list of dictionary label value pairs and we just did this with a simple list comprehension
for every feature in the columns.
Then we're going to do is have the actual initial value and displacement to be our initial value.
Again it's really up to you what the initial value should be but we'll have just displacement be the
first x axis value and we're going to do a very similar thing for the drop down for the y axis.
So here that's y axis we're going to do the exact same options parameter.
So let's copy this and we're going to paste it in here.
Then comma for one more parameter.
Now we get to choose the default y axis.
Again totally up to you.
Let's go ahead and choose something simple like MPG.
So right off the bat we'll have to drop down.
They're already connected to some IDs for the x axis and the y axis.
Later on we'll be able to call those interactional callback decorator and then the graph itself.
This one's actually already done.
So one more thing that we're going to add inside of this div for the dropdown is a style dictionary.
Right now if we just leave it as it is those drop downs are going to take up the entire width of the
dashboard.
So you would see one on top of the other and remember that our dashboard showed one to the left and
one to the right.
We can adjust that with some style calls.
So make sure you do this quickly.
So inside of our div..
So it is here right after that bracket.
I'm going to create a style dictionary and we're going to set the width of this.
And after playing around some values I found that 48 percent with worked best for me 50 percent with
it kind of gave a little bit of overlap issues.
It depends on your browser though so you may want to play around with attribute yourself.
And then the other attribute that I you made that display a little clear was saying display inline block
and this inline block basically allows this dropdown to be right next to this dropdown instead of automatically
introducing it that break.
And we're actually just going to copy and paste this style dictionary for the second div.
Remember the style dictionary it's associated with the div not the dropdown.
So pay attention to where this bracket is.
So the Stiv contains a list of the dropdown and then the style goes inside the Stiv.
And we're going to do the same thing here.
This div has a list containing that dropdown.
We're going to say comma and give a style to that particular division then the graph itself if you want.
You can add more style there by putting it in its own div.
But right now let's just give style to the entire outermost div.
I'm going to zoom out a little bit so we can see this.
So notice here we have this outermost div That's a list of this div this div and the graph.
So if we want to give the entire outermost have some style at the very end we can add a style dictionary.
And here just to give a little more space.
We're going to set padding equal to 10 OK.
So our layout is essentially the.
Now we've created two dropped outs each within their own div that way we can out of style dictionary
to make sure it will have an extra comma there.
There we go.
And then we had a graph as well.
Let's move on to actually then adjusting our figures.
Remember you can always copy and paste from our provided notes.
This one is called callback 3 that PI inside of the multiple inputs folder.
We're going to set up our function call will say if it's going to be a function we'll call it up that
graph and it's going to take some x access name and some y axis name.
So already this is different than what we've done before because you notice it's taken in two parameters
and then we're going to have it return some dictionary with data and then a layout parameter as well.
Essentially it's going to return that figure dictionary that will go inside of this graph.
Because of that we're going to need to do an app decorator call.
So let's zoom in a little bit so we can focus on that decorator call.
So this app callback ofI are used to this now and we're going to set the output and first thing first
is the ID.
So what did we actually call the idea of this graph.
Well we call that feature graphic.
Again it's up to you whatever you want to call this string.
So it's copy and place that there and then the property we want to adjust is the actual figure itself.
So the figure right now is essentially just none because we didn't provide one.
So the property that we're actually going to be outputting to is figure
and then we have that list of inputs and this time we're actually going to have more than one input
will say input and the input ID the first and all do is this X-axis and then the second one will be
the y axis and we'll be doing this value as far as what should be passed into the function.
So the input is going to be x axis ID for that component and the component property is the value.
So that's our first input and then the second input is very similar.
So essentially the ID of the other dropdown which is y axis and then we have the value.
So no here these inputs essentially correlate with what the inputs here on this graph.
So this first input is going to be the first parameter passed and here is this function.
The second input is going to be the second parameter passing to the function and so on if you added
more inputs for more components.
But again it's just the idea and the property they are connecting for the input output.
Then all we need to do is build out the dictionary and the data is going to beat the actual list of
the trace.
So let's work on that first.
It's going to be kind of a lot of code here.
So remember data when you're doing it with a figure it's going to be a list of traces.
And in this case we just have one trace.
It's our scatterplot.
So I'll say go that scatter.
And here is where we actually end up deciding on the x and y values.
So the scatter plot Remember it takes an X.
And this will be the data from column of whatever the input for x axis value is.
So in this case this input ends up getting past the function here on x axis name.
So we're going to copy that and set that to the data frame of x axis name.
Note how in not passing the string x axis named because this is actually a variable that's being passed
in from the input and the variable itself is a string.
So keep that in mind then we're going to say why in a similar fashion is equal to f and that's going
to be the parameter Y-axis name.
There we go.
And your underscores may vary as well.
In fact I'm going to remove this underscore that way we keep similar stylings between Y axis and x axis.
So we have X and Y.
If we want text to be displayed when we hover over a particular point we can add that parameter as well.
And that can be the name of the car itself.
Now notice here this is a manual choice.
So no matter what the X-axis is and what the y axis is whenever you hover over something regardless
of what the actual scatterplot showing you're always going to see the name of that particular car model
that will say mode is equal to marker's that it's a scatterplot and out a line plot.
And if you want to add some different stylings to the markers remember that's just marker is equal to
and then it's a dictionary where you decide on the different parameters.
And very quickly it looks like I accidentally did this in the wrong park.
Notice how it's not being syntax highlighting that comma should have gone in here.
There we go marker equal to.
So syntax highlighting can really help you to make sure you're putting things inside the parentheses.
So all of this is going inside my scatter and then all of that is going inside this list is this data.
And now the marker it's going to take its own dictionary and let's say just a few things looks make
the size a little bigger maybe 15 points.
And I think for right now that's actually all we'll do and let's move on to LEO.
So leo will say go that lay out.
And this is where we want to set maybe a title X axis y axis.
So let's do that.
Well set the title to speak to my dashboard for MPG
and then we'll say x axis is equal to.
And this takes in its dictionary for title.
So this title remember we're going to want to have to be able to adjust this on the fly.
So something we can do is just take in the x axis name we'll say x axis name and we'll do the same thing
for y axis.
So the title of the y axis is just whatever parameter is being passed into y axis here.
So that's a y axis name.
There we go.
So that's all we're going to do right now for Leo.
Later on we'll do a couple of adjustments to make it look a little nicer but if we zoom out we can see
the whole picture here and we're going to continue on by actually saying now if name is equal to mean
take that app and run the server let's save this and then check for any typos or mistakes by saying
run this file will do Python basic but.
Looks like I do have a typo somewhere.
So I have invalid syntax on x axis.
Let's make sure that I'm lined up correctly here.
So it looks like they actually put that outside of my layout.
So let's grab all of this code.
And that should actually go comma inside here.
So just a little error as far as with my commas.
Again notice how now I'm getting the right syntax highlighting there.
So I have this title X axis and y axis.
This is all going inside my layout call right here.
And then the whole thing is in the dictionary for data and layout.
So let's save this try again.
And there we go.
So let's run toward dashboard in the browser and see if it's all working.
All right.
So moving toward dashboard it looks like it appears to be working we have this placement and NPG noticed
that my scatter points look a little different than the first dashboard.
There's no capacity to them.
So we're going to add that in later on a style call.
But right now let's make sure that the main functionality is working that it can change things the plot.
So this plot horsepower versus the weight of the car looked perfect.
So it does look like it's being updated right now basically all the things that we can change our style
calls.
So let's do that itself.
Notice here as they hover over these points it's not going to the closest one on the cursor.
So we can do that with hover mode in our layout.
And then I also want to change the points the way they look right now if they're all on top of each
other I can't really tell at which point is which.
So we're going to adjust that as well.
Let's go back to our text editor and adjust any style changes.
Ok back to the text editor.
Let's first adjust those markers so they look a little clear.
Zoom back in here and add some more parameters to this marker dictionary.
We already effect to the size that's looking good.
But I'd like them to have a little bit of see through.
So we're going to save maybe 0.5 for how opaque they are.
And let's also give them a line.
So let's give them a nice little white border so we can differentiate between the actual circles.
So we'll say line and this takes in its own dictionary of the width and the color of the line.
So let's give that width of the line a value of 0.5 and let's give the color for it.
Let's just say it white.
You can also experiment with something like black.
That should look fine as well.
Then for the hover mode for the layout Let's add that in so we'll say comma here hover mode parameter
and we're going to set that equal to the string closest so that way whatever button or point is closest
to your cursor that should be the information that's displayed.
Let's say that wrister are actual dashboard and it should look a little bit nicer now.
All right jumping back to the dashboard.
I can see now there's a little bit of see through Inus to the circles which is good.
And then also it looks like the closest mode is actually working now.
So if I'm hovering over this point it shows me the information for that point.
And we saw how the functionality of being able to adjust the actual x and y axis so weight versus weight
or let's say weight versus number of cylinders and so on.
OK.
So in the few minutes we have left let's do a very quick review of everything that's going on.
Here we are back with the text editor.
Let's do a very high level overview.
Just briefly as far as everything we did.
First off pretty simple do all your imports create your Dasch application read in your data file and
then we created this list of the columns basically a list of all the features available in that dataset
which we used later on for our dropdown.
Then we created our layout this layout as always has the outermost div and then because we wanted to
add styling to some of these components we created a separate div for each dropdown.
And the reason for that mainly is so we can show the divs one to the left and one to the right.
If we didn't have that then most likely they would have been stacked right on top of each other which
is fine for a simple dashboard but to add a little more styling call you can always put it in a div
and then style it with a dictionary.
Then each of these drop downs we give them an ID so we can later reference that in our callback.
We want one for x axis and one for y axis and then if we zoom in a little bit we can see here that we
created that list of options with list comprehension.
This is usually a more tricky parts that's going to need some sort of custom code and you can do it
slickly with a list comprehension.
But we've seen before in our previous examples how we can do this with just a for loop as well.
Use whatever method makes sense to you then we have a default value for the drop downs.
Then we adjust the style for each of these divs and then finally we have our graph call where essentially
the figure parameter is there.
But right now it's set to None.
Then we create our decorator callback with our output.
Remember we have the component ID and the component property we want to adjust and then we have a list
of inputs again component IDs and properties we want to take in these inputs are directly connected
to the parameters that are passed into this function.
And then this function this update graph gets called whenever you adjust these inputs and it's going
to return this property figure which gets inserted directly into this graph.
So we just do the dictionary for the data and the layout.
And here this is essentially what we saw before with our normal plot plots a scatterplot and a layout
where the scatterplot is defined by the actual inputs of x axis name and y axis name for the x and y.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forms.
Make sure to check the guidebook for more information on this dashboard.
We'll see you at the next lecture.